hey everyone Sylvia Perez here and
welcome to today's episode of behind the
ads where we learn how some of the
fastest growing companies approach
digital advertising in today's episode I
have a very special guest joining me
none other than Tara Robertson senior
manager of demand generation at chili
Piper and the host of the demand gen
chat welcome Tara
thanks so much for having me so I'll be
excited for this I am super pumped for
this conversation I love what you guys
are doing at chili Piper and I feel like
there's so many nuggets that we're going
to get into and really just get an
inside look on how you guys are
approaching your paid experimentation
and your paid strategy as a whole so
taking at the highest of levels what is
chili Piper and what do you guys do and
who do you serve
sure yeah so at the very highest level
we help B2B Revenue teams book more
meetings so usually if you're in B2B
your goal as a marketing team as a sales
team is to book demos book meetings with
your ideal prospects so we make that
super easy to qualify and Route those
leads whether they're on your website
coming inbound or for your outbound
sales reps that's very sticky product I
can imagine if you know you you have
something that's helping you book more
meetings faster so that's awesome and
I'm just curious in terms of
the company at a high level what is your
what is your paid strategy look like
you're paid myself so I could do it
anywhere too but
really I just try to get in front of our
ICP with content that either educates
them or sells them on why they should
think about looking at chili Piper so
just take a step back our ICP is again
we're in B2B so we sell mostly to B2B
marketing teams and we have a focus on
teams that use either Salesforce or
HubSpot as their CRM so it's a bit of a
niche within B2B but those are our ideal
prospects that I want to get in front of
and I would say probably around 70
percent of our paid social is in that
education bucket so not trying to sell
anything really just using content from
our blog content that we have creating
for other reasons within the company we
also obviously you mentioned we have our
podcast Dimension chat so I repurpose
clips from that on paid and then our
Founders also do a lot of thought
leadership content as well so trying to
leverage that in our paid efforts
go subscribe to demand and chat
everybody
check it out it's pretty awesome that's
okay so 70 is on quote unquote what we
call creating demand essentially
building that yeah call that education
call that creating demand yeah got it
and then 30 is what a more on capture so
people who are in Market they know they
got a problem or you're trying to drive
that
exactly yeah I spend probably another 10
is promoting our newsletter so that's we
don't do much gated content at all at
Chili Peppers one way that you can
basically be top of mind is getting you
on our newsletter I'll email you once a
month similar just subscribing to demand
gen chat it's very educational top of
funnel we're not going to bug you for a
demo and then that last 20-ish percent
is
retargeting people that we already know
are in our ICP trying to get them to
learn a bit more about chili Piper maybe
we're showing you a customer story or
someone that's had a really great win
using our products and then lastly
trying to get you to book a demo which
obviously we use our own software for
but we really just want to bring in
those demos for the sales team so just
unpacking that 70 a little bit 70 is
remarkably significant in terms of
budget allocated towards something like
that where in most B2B orgs especially
from the ones that I've audited and
talked to It's usually the opposite they
have 70 on capture if they're lucky 30
on actually creating a brand and
building that all I can trust I always I
can give it as like an audience
essentially which is what you're going
after what does that look like is it
Facebook is it LinkedIn what are the
channels and yeah we'll just start there
yeah so we're mostly on LinkedIn
obviously we want to Target B2B when
they're thinking about work so that's a
great place to get them but we are able
to Target them on channels like Facebook
on Instagram that's usually where we
play around with retargeting so it's
people that are known audiences to us
and then just taking it a step back I
you mentioned that split is a little
unusual in my past roles it's been more
like 90 lead gen and 10 educational I
think it's changed a lot I was lucky
that when I joined Chile Piper the
company was already very anti-gated
content anti-ebook all of that stuff so
I came in at a good time where I was
ready to move on from that model and I
think a lot of marketers were but the
company internally that had already been
sold on that so came in at a lucky time
for me as a marketer got it makes sense
on the on the capture side is what does
that look like
I mentioned our newsletter we play
around a lot with lead gen forms there
obviously we just want your email we
don't need to know anything else about
you if you want to be on our newsletter
so we do that mostly again LinkedIn but
we do see some success on Facebook with
some retargeting audiences and then we
don't do too much bottom of funnel in
terms of Legion forms we find driving
them to our site especially because we
use Chili Pepper our own product a lot
of the time people want to see that
experience on a website and see what
that looks like are you doing any paid
search
yes so paid search is a whole other I
should say yeah I should say that 70 I'm
talking just paid social budget when I
say that in my mind paid searches
Way Beyond demand creation and it's
purely capture at least the way we run
it actually 100 so yeah so I don't even
consider that as a bucket it's more just
purely on the demand capture side so
yeah we do we have Google ads we do I
want to learn more about YouTube I'm
sure there's a ton more we could be
doing there we dabble in it I would say
I'm sure you do yeah I know you have
some great content on that I need
um
and on being surprisingly we've gotten
some pretty decent Enterprise leads come
in so I'm probably never going to turn
that channel off even though it's a
weird one but
a lot of people don't know that you can
use bid adjustments based on LinkedIn
targeting in Microsoft
so you can for example for everyone
listening like a little tip is you can
add in a job function filter on top of
your Microsoft search campaigns Bing and
do a negative bid adjustment of 90 to
help reduce the amount of unqualified
clicks you're getting from people in
those different job functions
that's a really good tip for broader
terms especially we're pretty Niche on
search so we don't really worry too much
about it but if you're going really
broad that's a great way to narrow that
down you can also just import your
Google ads campaigns which is really
makes it really easy to just it's almost
like you're not having a new channel to
manage in some ways absolutely yeah so
just to recap huge focus on content
distribution creating demand much minor
focus on capture
and you must be building so much
Goodwill ahead of time that it fuels
your retargeting efforts right and
you're just creating this I must think
of it as like this Echo chamber right
you're putting people more through the
top of funnel you're creating that
awareness that no trust you're
retargeting those folks later down and
then of course your
using results in advance by actually
using your own product to get people to
to convert so that's awesome I'm curious
if you're spending 70 on the creation
side what does your process look like
for
creating content and copying creative
because you know you're investing 70 I'm
curious what goes into that
bunch of things we have a couple
different streams of content that we're
always producing as a marketing team so
obviously I mentioned our newsletter so
I'm always looking at other people's
content to see what can we learn from
metadata is one example but there's tons
in the space that are creating great
stuff we also have our podcast that I
mentioned demand gen chat and then
working with Partners is another big
channel for us on the content side so we
run a lot of webinars with them we host
events and we try to capture content on
like mostly video content obviously but
when we're in person at those events and
then figure out okay who would care
about this would marketing Ops care
about this video maybe we can get that
in front of them and if it's especially
if it's something super timely off of an
event
that's a huge tip for people going to
events especially when they're syncing
thousands of dollars on a booth or
something like this it's turning the
event into an opportunity to create
content
and then yeah that's not one of our
goals at the event it's not obviously we
always want to drive revenue and
pipeline but the way that we're planning
next year's events is what content do we
think we can get out of it that's one
maybe do like in-person interviews I've
seen a couple folks do that
Alina our co-founder actually joined me
I went to cxl live in Austin a couple
months ago and she joined me and did
interviews there I think I saw Mutiny
doing that like they were interviewing
folks there and then they created
content off of that
yeah so we did the same and then Arthur
on our team also just loves being in
front of the camera much more than I do
he's been trying that out at a couple
in-person events too that's awesome I'm
curious so how are you approaching
actually building your audiences to get
in front of your ICP
I mentioned that ricp is pretty tight
and you basically have to be marketer
which there's obviously a billion titles
in marketing now but mostly on the
demand gen like digital performance side
of things and then you also have to be
on either HubSpot or Salesforce as your
CRM so we are able to build out that
technographic list of accounts with
metadata and then I also use that to
layer on the job titles so sometimes we
want to go super Broad and we want
everyone in marketing to see that
content other times we want Aegis
marketing Ops or just imagine to see it
so we can build those different layers
by the way this is not a plug for
metadata everybody just
cool yeah I'm not getting paid but it is
helpful to use for sure and then there's
other things we can do obviously on the
list side so for example I mentioned our
newsletter we obviously don't want
people who are already subscribed to our
newsletter to see ads for the newsletter
because that would be silly so we use
that exclusion list that we have set up
in HubSpot and just copy that over into
metadata as far as the taking a step
back on that on the content side and the
copy and whatnot
do you find certain type of types of ads
work better for you in terms of driving
that objective you're after
yeah it's funny I feel like this has
changed a lot in the last couple years
and probably it's just we're all
spending way more time on LinkedIn or at
least I wasn't spending any time on
LinkedIn a few years ago but now our
goal is really to look like an organic
post that you would click on versus look
like a brand at so I often have to like
remove our brand logo from stuff because
it's just built into designers Minds
usually that that has to be on there
um so I've tested things like this exact
same image but with the logo on and not
and obviously without the logo usually
performs better and I'm able to justify
that because obviously it's on paid
social you're seeing our logo is right
beside it anyway because it's posted in
feed so it's not like we're missing out
on that brand Affinity they're still
seeing that it's chili Piper but it's
not so in their face that this post is
an ad
yeah so that's one thing that we're
really seeing works and then just again
making it look more organic we've tried
some ads with that are pretty splashy
like video style that I thought looked
really good and nice and I think they
just looked too Brandy and too much like
ads so people just seem to tune them out
where if I have a recording like this
and put that up as an ad I'm sure that
would work
way better and I've seen their very
similar results yeah it's definitely
there's a shift happening same the same
best practices that you use organically
to create content that resonates that
gets your actions drives conversions Etc
it's the same thing enticing at the end
of the day otherwise see it it's just an
amplifier you're just amplifying you're
taking that piece of content and you're
guaranteeing distribution
but the same best practices approaches
Etc work one of the things I always tell
people they're like if they really want
to get started on a new channel I always
say learn how to become an effective
content marketer on that channel and you
will be a great Advertiser because if
you understand the landscape you
understand the nuances then you'll be
able to take those best practices those
posts and then even if you have a good
organic following you can test it first
and then you can boost it with something
like ads
yeah we're really lucky that we've not
it's not just left but we've built out a
really strong LinkedIn presence so we're
able to test things organically first
where you mentioned Twitter ads when we
were catching up earlier we tried that
out last year but because we don't have
a presence there I wasn't able to really
test anything organically so I just had
to make it up as I went along and it did
not go well at all so we decided to pull
the plug on that but when you have an
audience your newsletter Twitter ads
and it's super redoing the landing page
when that's done
that's awesome yeah I just and you you
have metadata which is awesome but I'm
not even using metadata for my Twitter
ad campaign I'm just using follower
look-alikes so you can choose like
different top celebrities in the B2B
space and you can create look-alike
audiences off that and you can get in
front of folks the key is like the ad
itself has to be specific to the B2B
marketers
that's awesome diving into you're
spending 75 70 of your budget on really
demand creation and how do you approach
reporting and measurement to know that
you're actually being successful
funnel the way that we are for a lot of
our spend so I try to balance it out
with I often get asked what's the ROI of
this how are we calculating that but if
I try to just bring the conversation
back to what is our goal with this part
of our spend so I bucket the spend as
brand awareness essentially so I know
this part I'm not expecting any direct
demos obviously we want to bring in
pipeline further down the funnel but for
right now the snapshot that we're
looking at is just brand awareness so I
try to keep in mind that when I set
goals and kpis one thing that we do a
ton of is I mentioned video earlier we
have a ton of video ads so I actually go
into the platforms and look at the video
metrics and pull those numbers to show
basically not just to compare videos but
also to show hey people are really
invested in what we had to say about
this topic we should create more of that
so like view rates yeah view rate
completion if people are
clicking through after but mostly b-rate
is a big one for video
and obviously video is a very time
intensive resource to make usually so it
helps to make that case that we need
more
the other thing I look at which seems
basic but a lot of people don't do it is
going into LinkedIn and making sure that
the right people are actually seeing our
ads so
if the goal is brand awareness then to
me the most important thing is that the
right people are seeing it so it doesn't
really matter if people are clicking and
looking at it if they're not the right
people so I just go into LinkedIn and I
can pull lists of which accounts are
looking at our ads what titles where are
they in the world and that helps to
justify that spend as well that we're on
the right track
yeah that's totally true I'm curious on
the videos that you're pushing are you
especially for awareness are you just
doing videos in feed are you driving
them to blog articles or some sort of
landing page
mostly in feed I've want to play around
with more but I'm struggling with right
now is a lot of them are actually
podcast videos and we're trying to
figure out where we want to drive those
people to so we're just sticking within
feed for now got it yeah you definitely
get like massive cost breaks right by
putting the content and feed Etc and
then now you're are you guys using any
like for your remarketing audiences or
using like the video view segments where
you can retarget people based on video
consumption I've tried our lists are
still pretty small I would love to get
that reach that targeted eventually I'm
sure we'll get there the last time I
tried our list for mostly all too small
for that because our top of funnel is
already niched down yep there's not too
much we can do there but eventually I'd
love to play around with that I have one
client this is going to give you some I
guess maybe some inspiration for
everybody listening as well I have this
one client that for 365 days 25 video
views the audience size of that one
segment alone was like 850 000.
wow it's ridiculous from like the one
segment so imagine like the potential
that when you create these different
segments and then you group them
together to be able to bump up that
audience size so now that gives you the
flexibility where you can layer in
additional criteria
so now you can do retargeting but you
can do more personalized retargeting
based on maybe certain personas where
you wouldn't have that option before if
you're just doing like web visits
because that's the only thing that we
have available
no yeah that's smart to make it Broad
and then segment down from there
what do you call it when it comes to
your Tech stack I'm always curious like
every org is unique what does your Tech
stack look like for paid media
yeah so I can go pretty broad but I'll
start with kind of project management
side we use Asana so I spend a lot of
time in there because I work so
cross-functionally I always basically I
always need something from someone to
get ads live so I use Asana for that I
mentioned Salesforce before that's the
CRM that we're on so all of our data
flows through into there our landing
pages are on webflow and we use HubSpot
for forms and then obviously we have
chili Piper for the booking so someone
fills out the HubSpot form and then if
they're qualified we let them book
metadata again they're not paying me for
this but we use them to again build
audiences also obviously launch
campaigns build the a b testing that we
want to try out on creatives
and then I'm trying to think what else
mode is where our reporting and
dashboards live so I work really closely
with our data team who owns basically
everything in mode I don't really Touch
Too Much open yeah mode I don't think
I've heard of that is that like a bi
tool yeah it's like a tableau or just
yeah bi tool is probably the best way to
put it but they pull data from Snowflake
into that so that I don't have to touch
all of the data side of things all right
so they'll basically
aggregate all the data and then from
there you have a single view where you
can see cost per actual opportunity from
LinkedIn as an example if it's a last
touch campaign yeah and I can
I typically as granular as
how many opportunities do we have open
like today from The Source what's the
pipeline and it's all filtered
obviously we use utms which everyone
should be doing but we use utms for our
paid so anything that's grouped under
the paid bucket I have a whole dashboard
that shows me everything and then I can
drill down by Channel by campaign any
basically any term that I want how
important would you say it is to
of all the reporting you have I feel
like just in my experience sometimes
your two ends of the spectrum either on
the one hand you have no visibility and
you just you're just blind just flying
through the dark or on the other hand
you have too much information where you
get crippled and almost like analysis
paralysis so a big example is like
attribution like you just have this
crazy attribution model that you've
built and it's just you're now you're
slow to make decisions of all your
reporting what would you say is the most
essential that you can't live without
yeah I would say that mode dashboard
that I worked with the data team to
build is super helpful because it's all
the things that I per it's all basically
all the open questions I had about paid
and they helped me build that we don't
have a very sophisticated attribution
model today I think that's a gap for us
but at the same time I've been at
companies where we pulled our hair out
trying to figure that out for months and
didn't really get anywhere productive so
it's there's pros and cons once you go
down that road of making it too
complicated I think you can
who ends up being analysis paralysis for
sure where you have too much information
and you can't make any decisions yeah
absolutely
I'm curious when when you have struggles
and you're thinking through what am I
going to do with my paid ads what
resources do you lean on that really
help you
in general it could be internal external
yeah I think I mentioned our data team
obviously they're a huge help to me
internally I used to try to pull what I
could out of Salesforce but it's not
always the best place for that and then
just honestly just the marketing team on
slack I use that channel so much to just
post hey is this weird does this make
sense to you guys what do you think of
this and then I'm sure every company has
this but we also have a great marketing
channel where we just post like
inspiration ads people are seeing things
people like so I always refer back to
that when I feel stuck on something I'll
just scroll through that channel just to
see what people what other people
thought was interesting and worth
flagging and go from there I'm also in a
ton of slack communities probably too
many
um and I find that sometimes when I just
need a break either in between meetings
I don't have enough time to actually get
anything done productively or if I just
need to like fresh ideas that you can
post in some of those or just scroll
comments but overwhelming all the
communities on slack to be honest yeah
one of the one of the things that that
I've done that's super helpful so one of
the biggest challenges
with being I don't for lack of a better
word like expertise an expert in your
field is we don't elicit enough feedback
from outside eyes so one of the most
valuable things that I've done in the
past that's really helpful is hire
another expert to do an audit of your
activities so you get an objective
outside view of what's going on and then
that can help you like unlock certain
things like oh I didn't see it that way
or yeah maybe that is a gap that we're
missing because we have our blinders on
that's smart yeah I feel like it's tough
especially I'm a team of one so I don't
really have anyone in my exact role to
bounce ideas off of you can see how that
outside perspective would really help
Tara if you had to give advice to
somebody that you know they are a team
of one like yourself and they're
starting up a paid media program at
their company what would you tell them
I would say start with the
letter there's a lot of
staying creative testing figuring out
the right messaging but if you don't
have your audiences right you're going
to be wasting money and you're not going
to come away with relevant insights
anyway so it's not that fun it's not
that flashy but I would start with your
audiences and especially exclusions
that's something that I'm trying to keep
a closer eye on these days especially
when every dollar always counted but it
counts even more now so exclusions are
huge
that's awesome
I hope you guys got a ton out of this I
know I did just to quickly recap number
one the sooner you can start to create
demand the better having and really you
have to have it from the top down right
you have to have that alignment from the
business level because
ultimately that's gonna be a huge
blocker and then making sure that you
guys are really taking advantage of the
content available and you're repurposing
it across different things and you're
promoting that content and one of my
biggest takeaways just the fundamentals
like if your ad is not getting in front
of the right person
like everything else is just it's just
gonna suffer right
amazing Tara if people wanted to connect
with you where can they find you
sure you can find me on LinkedIn pretty
easy to find and I'm trying to post more
so please follow me so I have some
motivation from LinkedIn follow her
after this and if you guys haven't
already subscribed to demand chat I
highly recommend it thank you so much
Tara
thanks so much for having me